Peeling Text
http://www.fresherimage.com/Tips/PaintShopPro/peelingtext/

Part 1: Creating the image canvas

1. Create a new image, I will use a 300 x 100 image, 72 pixels per inch, white 
background (or web page background color), 16.7 million colors (24bit).

2. Now we need to add another layer. Click on "Layers" then "New Raster Layer". 
Click on OK when the Layer Properties window displays to apply the new layer. 
You should now see a new layer (Layer1) in the Layer Palette window. (If you 
don't see a Layer Palette window, click on View then Tool bars and place a check 
in the box next to Layer Palette.) The blend mode should be "Normal" and the 
opacity should be "100" like in my example image below.

Part 2: Select stroke and fill modes

1. Before applying the text to the image, lets select a fun looking color style. 
In the "Color Palette" you will see two boxes just below the word "Styles". The 
top box will stroke (outline) the text according to the color and mode selected 
in that box. The bottom box (outlined in red in my example image) will fill the 
text with the color and mode selected in that box. Move the cursor over the top 
one and quickly click the left mouse button once. This brings up the "Color" 
window. I selected a medium gray color for the stroke of the text. Lets make 
sure the fill mode is set to gradient. Move the cursor over the fill mode box 
and press and hold down the left mouse button until a small fly out window 
appears. (Or click in the small triangle in the box and the fly out window will 
open).

Hold the cursor over each fill mode and the description of that mode will 
display. Click on the Gradient mode. After the fly out window closes you can 
quickly click the left mouse button with the cursor placed over the gradient 
fill box and the "Gradient" control window will open.

2. With the "Gradient" control window open, click directly on the example 
gradient that is displayed or click on the bar next to it. This will bring up 
some preset gradient fills. I selected the one called "Autumn" at 180 degrees. 
For now select anyone you like, but that is not transparent. You can tell if 
it's transparent if you can see a checkerboard pattern showing through the 
colors. Once you have the gradient fill selected click the OK button to close 
the window.

Note: you can also select stroke and fill options from the "Text" tool window. 

Part 3: Apply text

1. Click on the "Text" tool icon , its on the main tool bar. Look at the "Layer 
Palette" box and make sure that the layer we added (Layer1) is the active layer. 
The active layer will be high-lighted. If its not high-lighted click on it to 
make it active. Move the cursor over your still blank image and click the left 
mouse button once to open the "Text" control window. The text control window has 
too many features to go over in this tutorial. For now choose a font style that 
is wide and has a fun appearance. I am using Informal011 Blk BT in my example. 
You may or may not have that font installed on your computer. The size is 48 and 
I set the kerning to 75. Find the "Create as" area and check anti-alias and 
floating. Click the OK button when ready.

2. Next click on "Selections" then "Select None". Now click on "Layers" then 
click on "Duplicate". The "Layer Palette" should now show three layers; 
Background, Layer1, Copy of Layer1. To help see what is happening, click on the 
eyeglass icon next to "Copy of Layer1" to turn that layer off for the moment. 

The image will still look the same as both layers are identical. Next click on 
"Layer1" to make it the active layer. Now click on "Colors" then hold the mouse 
over "Adjust" then click on "Brightness/ Contrast". 

Lower the "Brightness" control to -255 and click  OK. The letters should be 
black at this point. Go back and click on the eyeglass icon to turn the top 
layer back on. Use the "Move" tool to move the top layer (the letters with the 
color) up and to the left just a little so you can see the shadow below the 
colored text. Place the "Move" tool over the colored letters and hold down the 
left mouse button while dragging the text. You should now see an image similar 
to the one below.

Part 4: "Peeling" the text

1. OK, so you're thinking it looks like a pretty standard image with a drop 
shadow. But by using this method we have seperated the drop shadow from the 
text. Now we can apply an effect to the text and the drop shadow separately. In 
the "Layer Palette" make the layer with the colored text the active layer, it 
should be "Copy of Layer1" unless you have made any changes.

2. Click on "Effects" then hold the mouse over "Geometric Effects" then click on 
"Wave". Most effects look best when applied sparingly so use the settings in the 
example image below (horizontal 1,1 vertical 5,70). Later you can experiment to increase or decrease the 
peeling effect. Click the OK button when you are ready to proceed.

3. You should now see an image similar to the one below. Don't worry if the 
shadow and the text are not well aligned, we will fix that in a moment. First, 
in the "Layer Palette" make the layer with the drop shadow the active layer. 
Then click on "Effects" then hold the mouse over "Blur" then click on "Blur" or 
"Blur More" to give the image a feeling of depth. If necessary, use the "Move" 
tool to move the drop shadow or the colored text around to complete the effect. 
Just place the move tool over the colored text or the drop shadow, hold down the 
left mouse button and drag that part of the image to align the text and the 
shadow.

4. Here is the finished image saved as a JPG image with 25% compression. It 
looks like the text is peeling up off the page, at least I hope it does!

As is often the case, I serendipitiously "discovered" how to create this effect 
while trying for a completely different effect. So I encourage you to have fun 
and experiment with PSP7 to discover other cool effects!